[Music]
what's the ultimate thing that you're
running from like some sort of spiral
effect I've seen people I love let's go
there like Spiral into depression or
let's go spiral into madness yeah let's
go
there's an abyss in you that you're
avoiding and your fear is that if you go
into that
it won't come out it won't come out so
let's go
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease foreign
today's episode is a coaching session
between Joe and somebody in our
community who just completed the
connection course and was really ripe
and motivated for the work and to
explore further and she reached out to
us to offer to do a session on the
podcast
and we really really love it when people
are this devoted to their growth and
their exploration and we really want to
support it so without further Ado here
is that session
wow you wanted to come in person I did I
did I wanted the in-person feel Zoom is
a huge barrier for me and for dropping
in sometimes awesome yeah I have like a
resistance and my mind's like all those
other things that I didn't want to do
before seemed so enticing now
that makes sense yeah and Romy Romy Romy
is a friend he's my partner partner all
right nice how long have you guys been
together uh funny we thought last year
was three years and we went to our
anniversary dinner looking at photos
There Were None So this year it's three
years all right it just feels like
longer covet is like a Time accelerator
awesome yeah nice yeah uh Tara and I
have been married for over 20 now nice
I've heard good things about her from
Alexa yeah yeah she's amazing yeah yeah
cool so what are we here for what do you
want to work on it's
okay
yeah a lie for me anymore so in the last
few days I was trying to figure out
another topic and I started thinking
about intuition and then this morning I
was meditating in a few seconds before
my meditation ended I had a thought that
popped up intuitively I was like well I
guess we're going with this okay it's
not fully formed all right uh so the
ideas around emotional fluidity about
um
how does labeling our emotions affect
the ability for them to transform and
change and how does labeling emotions
put structure or identity on who we are
and how does that affect our
transformation and change so I'm happy
to answer those questions but I noticed
two things that are happening first
that's a really intellectual question
and not personal to you and then the
second thing is I notice that you're
emotion like because you're here in
person I noticed that there's actually
something personal happening as far as
like we're your emotional body is not
having an intellectual conversation with
me but whatever just happened was
intellectual so I'm wondering if you
have something else you want to work on
that's good I feel like I've been trying
to find this perfect question for you no
I don't really know what that is what's
the thing that's how about this what's
the the thing
that if it's shifted in your life would
be the most profound
positive movement that you could
conceive of being able to trust myself
again okay that sounds like something to
work on yeah I've been doing so much
parts work and now I'm like so aware of
all these contradictory parts of myself
and trying to acknowledge and address
them all with compassion and it's like
just a mess in there right it's like I
see all things has holding Truth at once
and there is this like fluidity before
before I was more aware of all of these
parts that just allowed me to come to
conclusions and like live in a flow
State regardless of where that took me
yeah and now I feel
not quite paralyzed but that there's so
many things that I'm aware of that are
like it's more consciously going into my
choices that I'm not sure like I have
less confidence in what feels right for
me so I know what parts work is but do
you want to describe it a little bit
because we have people who will be
listening to this so what yeah sure uh
so
Arts work the way
I've self as being comprised of
different parts that might be of
different ages uh for instance there's
like the inner child which a lot of
people talk about but there's also for
instance you could have a protector that
you've developed in the past as a way to
come and make sure you're okay because
you've been hurt in the past you can
also have like a maternal part that
nourishes you and cheers you on you
could have a paternal part that's a bit
more Discerning and all of these parts
are living inside of you at all times
making decisions together usually under
the hood and right now for me they're
less under the hood and I'm speaking to
them all more directly yeah and
decisions are taking much longer and
becoming less clearer yeah so what's you
all of it's me
but what's essentially you like if I
took away the protector would you still
exist yeah I hear what you're saying
like there's like an awareness
like in essence
that's me yeah and then and what does it
think about
that you're made up of Parts the
awareness
what does it think about that I'm made
up of yeah what or what how does it
react yeah not think about how does it
react
right now it feels
like
it's been fun like meeting those parts
yeah and it's been like at the beginning
it was like a play like a dance and
there was almost like a pride in being
attuned to these parts like these voices
in my head that are constantly there and
it feel it felt like having more
awareness of them would lead to making
decisions that felt more in flow or at
least with more conscious intention yeah
and now I'm not so sure anymore because
I think there's a reason that some
things are left to the subconscious to
be uh you know decided and filtered
without like the conscious knowledge
like imagine if breathing was something
I had to think about all the time while
at the same time thinking of my heart
beating yeah or you know like
moisturizing my eyes or you know yeah
like so it seems like the construct I I
like Parts work I think it's very useful
I'll use it even sometimes but the
there's a construct that says that
there's these parts like a protector and
an inner child or
what's to make it not like a whole
different set of constructs what happens
if it's like the
one-year-old two-year-old three-year-old
four-year-old five-year-old six-year-old
seven-year-old or what happens if it's
the you know the Tarot deck yeah you're
the fool is talking to the queen which
is talking to the right you know like
yeah different hierarchy you know
whatever what would happen then yeah
totally and this is the other thing
that's been alive for me lately is
recognizing many framings is true at the
same time yeah now it's it's almost like
a Multiverse of contradictions right
yeah right okay so so the parts thing
has brought up something that's actually
bigger which it sounds like and tell me
if I'm wrong here but it sounds like
what's happening is that you are
starting to see that
all your thoughts are
both false and true yeah that there's
validity to everything but also a
limitation to everything yeah so what's
the problem with that
so it brings me back to something I've
been dealing with for a while involving
trust which is how can I trust my
intuition how can I recognize intuition
from fear or anxiety or projection how
do you not trust it
how do I not trust it because all these
other parts are now speaking up and I'm
like well which which one of those
things was true what's the difference
between intuition and a reaction or a
projection from the past yeah how did
you just say that
what do you mean oh you just spoke I
just spoke how did that happen yeah I
guess I've developed a mental model from
my experience since like being born into
this vessel what's happening right now
what's happening right now all these
parts exist none of them are true all of
them have some truth and here you are
talking how is that work how is that
happening
I guess it will happen whether I want it
to or not
yeah yeah it just is yeah so how do you
not trust your tuition if you're talking
you're trusting your intuition huh
I guess
that's an interesting way to put it what
I'm finding is that I'll have some sort
of gut reaction and then another just as
equally strong and sudden gut reaction
will come and contradict it and then
another one from a different angle yeah
yeah yeah so how is that just not fear
and that's that's where I'm left which
is am I making decisions out of fear or
am I making decisions out of
coming back into my power or feeling
more in flow
you know like how do I tell the
difference yeah how do you tell the
difference
I don't know that was actually my
original question
is how do I tell the difference I mean
I'm like some people say it's how you
feel in your body and I've been doing
this reading about it and some people
say if your body is tense then it's fear
and not intuition unless your intuition
is about something scary I've got
another one I've got another one for you
if you think you're making a decision
you're in fear
um
like you just made a hundred decisions
in the last five minutes with me
what to say how to look at me
eye moisturizing all decisions right and
they weren't they they didn't feel like
decisions but then there's like these
big decisions that come up or they feel
big yeah and
as soon as you think there's a decision
you're in fear
well how do I get out of that false what
would make you want to get out of fear
okay where do I go from there
first the question what would make you
want to get out of fear
I think I have this story that if I'm in
fear I'm not in flow because fear is
something that
maybe it's my resistance to fear that
actually takes me out of the moment but
I feel less connected Less in the moment
for instance if I have a thought okay so
how do you explain like mountain
climbers base jumpers all those people
who induce fear to get into flow how
does that work I think because they're
not resisting the fear so maybe what I'm
recognizing talking to you right now is
the thing that takes me out of flow is
fear comes up I resist the fear and
therefore I dissociate from my current
state right and what makes you want to
resist fear that's scary
what makes it scary
I know it's a it's an annoying question
but let's get to the base like what is
the actual problem with the sensation of
fear
for me I think it's about attachment to
outcomes that I'm scared I'm not going
to have this thing that I've now find
myself yearning for and being attached
to
okay so now now it's all everything
you've got all these parts you're aware
of all this stuff but what what's
actually happening is that you don't
know how to interpret them to get the
response that you want exactly okay yeah
it's just it's like being in a town hall
there's a lot of people standing up and
shouting and I'm at the front being like
okay like I hear you all now what yeah
so what makes you wanna again an
annoying question but what makes you
want a result
hmm
it feels like if I was to say to you you
get to determine all of your results or
you get to determine how you are as a
person which are you going to choose
probably how I am yeah
yeah so then what makes you care about
the results
hmm
yeah that's a great question I have this
is another thing I I have these
attachments to outcomes and I've been
wanting to lean more into the want so if
I find myself now like scared and I'm
like oh what if I don't get XYZ I'm like
well what do I want out of this right
leading into the want yeah yeah so I
think it's great to be aware of what you
want but that doesn't mean that you're
attached to the outcome no I'm still
attached to the outcome and I think
maybe I'm trying to use leaning into the
want as a way to maybe dissociate from
how attached I am to the outcome or to
bypass it right yeah but it's the
without without that attachment it
sounds like the fear is gone or it's not
resisted excuse me yeah exactly yeah
yeah
so what's the what's the core like right
down into it what's the reason that you
care about the outcome
there's usually a if you're gonna be who
you're going to be and the outcome is
going to do what it is what it does what
what makes you concerned
yeah recognize that usually when these
fears come up and these attachments come
up there's fear of a loss of something
that is a value of mine and what do you
mean a value like um fear of a loss of
connection or fear of a loss of
authenticity or Integrity something that
uh I have that's all in how you are yeah
exactly like I can be connected if
everybody's spitting on me and I can be
disconnected if everybody's loving me
that's true that's a good reminder that
it doesn't have to be a two-way street
like I can feel connected to someone
without them being connected to me or my
values or my Integrity or any of that
stuff so much easier said than done what
makes it yeah that's what I'm trying to
figure out what makes that hard
what makes it hard to
focus on how you want to be rather than
the results
if you folks in my life have been
working with me on just saying the
scariest thing that they can think or
ask me what's the scariest thing and
like saying it to me and seeing how it
lands yeah uh in order to get past the
fear to say okay if I felt the fear all
the way through will that go away
again what makes you want to have it go
away
laughs
how can one live in a constant state of
fear and still I don't know how do you
do it I don't know how do you do it I
mean you've been doing it how does it
work
for me you're resisting the fear it's a
constant state if you're embracing the
fear then other things happen
um yeah it manifests in my life if you
look at like a fight flight freezer Fawn
I'm a flight I'm like oh I'll go
somewhere else I'll do something else
I'll go and find for instance that uh
value of connection of bi-directional
connection which is apparently how I've
defined it somewhere else yeah also you
do it in your you do dissociation also
the flight also happens in dissociation
into the thought structure
that also is happening and then it
sounds like also the flight of away from
yourself into caretaking others uh
awesome oh totally yeah yeah all of
those are yeah like leaving myself to be
in someone else where I can feel a value
of service in connection with them yeah
so what's the ultimate thing you're
running from
what is it that makes it hard to be
that doesn't make that the the thing
you're focused on another way to ask
that question is what are you actually
running from and on the deepest level it
feels like sitting with myself
you meditate every day they do so how
does that work
yeah I meditate every day and it feels
really good to just relax into what is
myself yeah this physical somatic cells
yeah yeah I love it when you said that
it was the first time your smile went
away
you know I have my happiness filter that
many of us have developed in this
Society yeah yeah yeah yeah
it was the first time that it actually
was like that that mask went away was
when you were actually thinking about
being present in meditation hmm
yeah there's I feel like a sadness
bubbling up or there's like a motion
behind the eyes yeah
yeah
is that what you're running from the
sadness
it's an interesting question I feel like
two years ago what just happened I'm
intellectualizing I'm in my head now
dissociating from it I'm not saying
anything you're doing is bad I'm just
asking what happened
there was there behind the eyes yeah and
then you
yeah then I asked you an interesting
question yeah
yeah I have a yeah a really deep well of
sadness uh and sometimes often lately I
love it and I've like fallen in love
with like
wailing like you're crying it's like
wailing that's so good and it's like
it's not even just sadness it's like
anguish and it's like yeah sometimes
they get stuck yeah and maybe like
sometimes like now I'm like oh well I'm
with I'm with Joe in his Studio I can't
cry it's not appropriate so let's go
into something else let's distract him
by telling him he has an interesting
question I don't know any place that's
more appropriate but yeah yeah so when
you whale is it usually by yourself or
with someone you really know it's
usually one I really know a close friend
or a partner and there's some
permissioning in the relational
connection we have if someone says like
I love your sadness or it's okay to be
down it's okay to cry and I'm like yeah
yes right here it comes so how do you
feel that same way towards fear
you've you know what it's like now to
the Embrace of the emotional experience
and how it transforms your life what
what makes fear any different
I guess I can't remember a time where
anyone told me it's okay to be scared
it's okay it's okay to not know what to
do it's okay to not know what to do I'll
go even further it's okay to be
completely helpless
foreign
we all are
yeah I was raised by immigrant Chinese
parents who came from a really hard life
to an equally but different hard life
here in the states yeah and there's this
Pride around resiliency and yeah being
stoic and being strong yeah yeah I
remember the first time I lost my job I
was so scared to tell my parents and
it's happening and intellectualizing it
a little bit I know the story is great
and our viewers the listeners are like
oh wait I want to hear that
[__] them
yeah yeah so the idea is that if you
allow yourself to feel helpless you'll
be less resilient
um
it feels that way yeah
yeah lesser is a word that is floating
around in my head
it's lesser in general right
so I I want to bring some I know this is
a weird time to do it but what's
happened to all the parts
I just noticed spacious and Far More
spaciousness in you now
yeah it feels more like my breath feels
more like when I'm meditating and it
feels
there's like a sinking into this moment
and where are all the parts when you're
here
not sure
and how about the um what you are
essentially
yeah it feels more like back in
just awareness space
with the emotional experience with the
emotional experience there's a lot of
sadness yeah
yeah
it's like oh it's almost like coming out
of the closet
I have to admit to everybody I've been
scared my whole life
scared my whole life yeah
of so many different things yeah
it's like
finding reasons to be scared like
looking yeah
yeah
that's how you stay safe in a really
hardcore environment like your parents
yeah grew up in looking for what's going
to go wrong next yeah because there's
something right that's the feeling of
like change is the only constant
yeah and if you're scared then you like
assume that some change will be
threatening yeah
yeah there's actually more efficient
ways to go about that but that's the way
that most people find to survive
why is that
or what makes that the way that most
people adopt I don't know for sure but I
think it's a neurological feature that
we have where we remember what goes bad
more than we remember what's going well
and so you're looking for what's wrong
more than you're looking for what's
right yeah is it like a biological thing
where those monkeys that look for what's
right probably got eaten by a tiger or
something probably yeah I know I know
neurologically they've proven that we
look for what's wrong makes sense more
so we don't look for the opportunity so
instead of like oh everything's changing
there's opportunity where is it it's
everything's changing oh [__] what's the
next thing to come and [__] with me yeah
it's it's interesting like I wanna like
and I'm like am I leaving myself to go
into a question or a statement but I yes
yeah you just did okay but I also in
that question you did before that you
did okay the second guessing yourself
this is the second guessing yeah because
I am a glass half full kind of
thought person often yeah but now it's
like oh what about this opportunity oh
is that just like from my ego is that
from scarcity is that from greed is that
from fear and I'm like second guessing
my desire for this opportunity to see
how that could
I don't know reflect poorly on who I am
uh who who yeah it's like going back to
what you said already like what what
would you rather have the ability to
yeah who's the authority
that you're checking with
I want to save myself and yeah yeah
probably those around me
these days a lot myself
so then how is it a question is that
greedy
like it's it's the question you're doing
this opportunity because I'm greedy how
can that be a question if the authority
is you
it's like checking in with myself like
am I motivated by greed am I motivated
by scarcity uh and then this this the
story comes in of do I want to be
someone that is motivated by scarcity
and it is being motivated by scarcity or
like how does that like what path does
that lead me down
and then there's like these layers of
questions that all of that is binary all
of that is fear yeah binary in the fact
that it's like oh isn't it isn't it okay
to be motivated by scarcity 50 of the
time or 20 of the time ten percent of
the time five percent of the time
so that immediately there's binary
thinking it's either I'm that or not
that hmm but if you're all of that
yeah I am all of that
yeah so then how can you second guess
yourself
that's a question I'm not trying to
convince you not to yeah yeah
I think what happened is I've been hurt
a few times in the past for wanting
things or going after things yeah and
now I've I've put myself like in a box
like a friend the other day saw me for
the first time in a few months and he
just said where's your fire You've Lost
Your Fire
and I recognize I've been like
making myself small to feel safe that
who I was before with my wants and my
desires and going after them in the
world ended in a place where I felt like
hurt and perhaps a bit like what got
hurt what got hurt
ah
the way I can explain it now is it felt
like there was a reality Schism where I
thought I was in connection and could
trust
someone or someone's that's that's how
it happened I want to know what got hurt
I just watched you
be
coming from your place of essence it
didn't seem like there was any hurt
there
so what is it that got hurt
ah
I'm like speaking from this like
tightness that's somewhere between my
chest and my throat right now and I got
hurt yeah I got hurt
ever that means I got hurt right right
yeah and what just happened when you
said it what happened in your system
felt like a little bit of a fire kicked
up
yeah yeah
and that's the thing it's like and now
the second guessing is like oh like in
what environment is is my fire safe
because what if it was my fire that got
me hurt
my desire is my drive what if it is
what's the problem with that
what's the problem with getting hurt
yeah that goes back to my my fear of
fear
I mean let's take it a little bit more
slowly than that which is like you've
got you got hurt you got hurt
we know that it's not the essential you
that got hurt but I like the anger that
came with it so it's like yeah you got
hurt [__] them blah blah blah blah
that's great but
the part of you got hurt there's this um
Buddhist saying that says
offer yourself up to Annihilation so you
can find out the part of yourself that
can't be annihilated like what's wrong
with the hurt
what did it do besides
clarify anything
what did it do besides if you weren't
avoiding it yeah how to do anything
besides clarify Who You Are
yeah if I weren't avoiding it right you
weren't avoiding it yeah that that is
what would happen if I weren't avoiding
it I'd be like okay great like that
Avenue is closed moving on now I know
which way not to go uh no if you weren't
avoiding it it hurt
say that again if you weren't avoiding
it it would hurt
it would just hurt all the way through
instead of to about two inches in yeah
let's see what happens like let the
thing hurt
someone broke your trust someone
couldn't accept you
someone projected their [__] on you
foreign
to not take it personally
didn't seem hard at all so I'm like it
seems like taking it personally is much
[__] harder as soon as you took it
personally yeah I did yeah
in so many ways yeah
that's the whole thing about hurt
is it it clarifies all the parts of you
that are taking it personally
there's a like a worry that's coming up
that what would it mean to feel this all
the way through
what what would that mean for the
clarity yeah what would I lose that's in
this like you yeah that's why they would
lose the thing that you said got hurt
that's what would be gone hmm
like let's not pretend otherwise
hmm
laughs
I'm scared the hurt will turn into anger
I hope so
I've recently been told that my anger is
scary
and so I haven't been angry for a while
yeah
and I thought there was a way around it
I thought I could
find the root the fear behind the anger
and like process it as sadness because
sadness is like safe for women in
society so I've been like [__] yeah I'm
gonna cry all the [__] time yeah if
you're crying all the time and it's not
resolving it's because there's another
emotion there that you're not feeling
there's this kind of a theory that's
like oh under every all your anger is
sadness or hurt or something like that
[__]
it's true and it's not true it's true in
the fact that yes all of the anger is
underneath all the anger is hurt but
it's also true and underneath all the
hurt his anger yeah I was so hell-bent
on like proving to my coach I didn't
have anger that I found a neuroscience
article about this about how sadness
counteracts anger and maybe it can be
felt that way and she just responded
with like what part of yourself needs to
prove right now that you're not angry
yeah
yeah when you suppress your anger you
lose your fire you lose your
determination you lose your Clarity
that's how it works but you don't have
to get angry at people it's not like you
have to like
start yelling at people
yeah I think I'm at a point where
I know I've been making myself small and
detaching from my fire
because I know that when I feel it I
will take action yeah do things and then
things will be different yeah and that
goes back to
the like change is the only constant
change is scary and threatening what's
the next thing to be scared of yeah and
it's like this box I've made myself is
familiar now
yeah yeah so how's that working for you
terribly yeah terrible what makes you
keep doing it
this is like
it's like the I don't know if this is
true for others but there's this feeling
that's like
this is the hurt I know this one is
familiar
and that there's a resistance to change
even if I think it'll be quote unquote
better or something because this is just
familiar okay so resist change
you can it's no right now resist it
feels like change is happening there's
no doubt you're
hormonal state has changed your heart
rate has changed your emotional state
has changed
so resist it
so much tension in my body trying to
even conceptualize resisting it
don't conceptualize it
[Music]
now start looking around to see which
one of these this change that's
happening is dangerous
so that's how you're living
okay now do all of that keep doing it
keep doing it you're resisting change
you're looking around now
stick a smile on your face
yeah
yeah it checks out that's that's most
days yeah
yeah
so if you feel it all in a moment that's
what it's like
now just feel the opposite of that
don't think just feel
you don't need to be looking for
anything there's no need for Focus hmm
foreign
a little voice that's like
if you stop running
like you'll die or they'll get you or
whatever animal instinct
we have to keep going
or else
great
what what why resist that that's part of
the change that's happening right now
so right now there's more pleasure in
your system than there was a second ago
how much of whatever is left is just
resisting the pleasure
so from this space of not resisting the
change or all that stuff what's the fear
what's the ultimate thing that you're
running from
like some sort of spiral effect I've
seen
people I love let's go there like Spiral
into depression or let's go spiral into
madness yeah let's go
there's an abyss in you that you're
avoiding and your fear is that if you go
into that
won't come out you won't come out so
let's go
can you find it oh yeah
yeah so see what's like to just step in
the middle of it
so I got I noticed the resistance to
change crop that up
so there's like am I doing it right yeah
that's the resistance yeah okay so this
is just being open to the change just
the opposite feeling of that um and into
the abyss
you got quiet
you're making it the enemy again don't
make it the enemy
programs want to run
it's like oh this is a program that's
worked in the past
like that would like satisfy what you're
asking me right it would never it
doesn't work
ah
and so you're jumping in and finding the
experience pleasurable
not sure I know what I'm looking for
anymore then
like whatever I thought was the abyss
was maybe something else why do you
think it might have been
just felt like sadness
it's more I don't see you as sad right
now
what do you see me as right now
irrelevant
I'm saying it just so that you can check
with yourself so is it really Sadness
the abyss is like you jumped in
and without resistance what was it
oh interesting I think the sadness was
this like resistance to it yeah
so what was it when you didn't resist it
what is the thing that you're currently
avoiding In This Moment
by thinking about it instead of being in
it it's like no thing
there's nothing yeah just
and what's the experience of your body
right now
is this pleasure is this peace is this
yeah it's just
it's just sensation
what if this is what you're avoiding
what's what if this is the scary thing
peace huh
it was this big scary Abyss that was
going to eat you alive and dark spiral
of
but as soon as you went to
non-resistance it was piso makes sense
that you're resisting peace
hmm
it's funny it's like
the thing I crave
and when I meditate there's this
everything We crave we push away yeah
there's like a subtle agenda for peace
but knowing that if I Orient toward
peace I won't find it because it'll
it'll be a want then
right
everything We crave we're pushing away
at the same time right hmm
what makes us push away What We crave
craving is the pushing away
huh
your whole body relaxed when you when
you're like huh like you got it
that's funny
we're funny
yes yes we are
yeah
is it my one of my favorite quotes is uh
well Tara he says uh
comedian or God is a comedian playing to
an audience too afraid to laugh
um
does feel like so much of what we do is
to try to
wake ourselves up to go back to this
piece and we're like trying to push the
boundaries to feel all the things until
we're
maxed out and unable to
feel all the things anymore and we just
yeah so this topic is apparently what we
were talking about was how do you trust
yourself yeah
so from here how do you trust yourself
how does the question even make sense
exactly it's like what is there to not
trust
yeah
wow yeah what is there not to trust
I really love that Arc from the
intellectual question to the emotional
experience to the essence of who we are
and I really want to thank this guest
for really going there today bringing
your vulnerability and for really
showing up and asking for this and
lastly I want to thank all of our guests
for listening and I'm really looking
forward to the next one take care
bye-bye
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
foreign